Game Rule documentation (#527)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/gamerules.md

---

> title: Gamerules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Game Rules
```

> description: A guide for adding custom gamerules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A guide for adding custom game rules.
```

authors:
  - Jummit
  - modmuss50
  - Wind292
authors-nogithub:
  - mysterious_dev
  - solacekairos
---

<!---->

::: info PREREQUISITES

> You might want to have completed the [translation generation](data-generation/translations) first, but it is not required.

Reviewer 2: ~~I'm not sure why markdownlint isn't warning about this~~ wow I really thought I'd set up a rule for this...

```suggestion
You might want to have completed the [translation generation](./data-generation/translations) first, but it is not required.
```

:::

> Gamerules act as global variables that the player can change in-game with a command. These variables usually change something function of the world, for example `pvp`, `spawn_monsters`, and `advance_time`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Game rules act as world-specific configuration options that the player can change in-game with a command. These variables usually control some function of the world, for example `pvp`, `spawn_monsters`, and `advance_time`.
```

> ## Creating a Gamerule {#creating-a-gamerule}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a Game Rule {#creating-a-game-rule}
```

> To create a custom gamerule first create a `GameRules` class; this is where we are going to declare our gamerules. Inside this class declare two constants, a gamerule identifier and the gamerule itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a custom game rule, first create a `GameRules` class; this is where we are going to declare our game rules. Inside this class, declare two constants: a game rule identifier and the rule itself.
```

@[code lang=java transcludeWith=:::gameruleClass](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/gamerule/ModGamerules.java)

> ::: info

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this to be an info block?

> The category argument (`.category(GameRuleCategory.MISC)`) mostly just changes what category the gamerule falls under in the world creation screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The category argument (`.category(GameRuleCategory.MISC)`) determines which category the gamerule falls under in the world creation screen.
```

:::

In this example we have created a boolean gamerule with a default value of false and the ID of `bad_vision`. The stored values in gamerules are not limited to booleans, you can have:

- Booleans
- Doubles
- Integers

> - Enums

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we have created a boolean game rule with a default value of `false` and an id of `bad_vision`. The stored values in game rules are not limited to booleans; other valid types include `double`s, `integer`s, and `enum`s.
```

> Example of a gamerule storing a double:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of a game rule storing a double:
```

@[code lang=java transcludeWith=:::double](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/gamerule/ModGamerules.java)

> ## Accessing a Gamerule {#accessing-a-gamerule}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Accessing a Game Rule {#accessing-a-game-rule}
```

> Now that we have a gamerule and its identifier you can access it anywhere with the `serverworld.getGameRules().get(GAMERULE)` method. Where the argument to the `.get()` is your gamerule constant and not the gamerule identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have a game rule and its `Identifier`, you can access it anywhere with the `serverWorld.getGameRules().get(GAMERULE)` method, where the argument to the `.get()` is your game rule constant and not the game rule id.
```
Do we need to specify that this access requires a ServerWorld, or is this already obvious? Saying "access it anywhere" is misleading because these are normally inaccessible from the client.

@[code lang=java transcludeWith=:::access](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/gamerule/ModGamerules.java)

> You can also use this to access the state of vanilla gamerules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use this to access the values of vanilla game rules
```

@[code lang=java transcludeWith=:::vanilla](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/gamerule/ModGamerules.java)

> For example, for a gamerule that applies blindness to every player when true, the implementation would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, for a rule that applies blindness to every player when true, the implementation would be:
```

@[code lang=java transcludeWith=:::badvision](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/gamerule/ModGamerules.java)

## Translations {#translations}

Now we need to add our gamerule in datagen to give it a display name. So in your English language provider add:

@[code lang=java transcludeWith=:::gamerule-name](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/datagen/ExampleModEnglishLangProvider.java)

Lastly we need to give our gamerule a description. So in your English language provider add:

@[code lang=java transcludeWith=:::gamerule-description](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/datagen/ExampleModEnglishLangProvider.java)

::: info

> Both of these mainly just change what is displayed in the world creation menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This translation key is used when displaying text in the game rules screen.
```

Reviewer: game rule screen? game rules screen? I have no idea

Reviewer 3: Game Rules Screen

:::

> ## Changing Gamerules In-Game {#changing-gamerules-in-game}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Changing Game Rules In-Game {#changing-game-rules-in-game}
```

> Now you should be able to change your gamerule in-game with `/gamerule` command, so for our example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you should be able to change the value of your rule in-game with the `/gamerule` command as such:
```

``` command

> /gamerule bad_vision true

Reviewer: Are you sure about this
I was under the impression that we still needed to specify namespace and that no namespace defaults to vanilla

Author: You're right, I don't know how I didn't catch that. It should be `/gamerule example-mod:bad-vision`
